README.md, before:

# 🛡️ Leak Lock - VS Code Security Extension

**Secure your code repositories by detecting and removing sensitive information from git history**

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.0.1-blue.svg)](package.json)
[![VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS%20Code-1.96.0+-brightgreen.svg)](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

[📖 Documentation](#documentation) • [🚀 Quick Start](#quick-start) • [📸 Screenshots](#screenshots) • [🛠️ Development](#development)

---

## 🌟 Overview

Leak Lock is a powerful VS Code extension that helps developers secure their repositories by:

- 🔍 **Scanning** git repositories for secrets, API keys, and sensitive data
- 🛡️ **Detecting** over 100+ types of credentials using Nosey Parker
- 🔧 **Removing** secrets from git history using BFG tool
- ⚡ **Automating** the complete security remediation workflow
- 📊 **Displaying** results in an intuitive main area interface

## ✨ Key Features

### 🎯 **Smart Detection**
- **100+ Secret Types**: API keys, passwords, tokens, certificates
- **Low False Positives**: Advanced pattern matching and validation
- **Git History Scanning**: Deep analysis of entire repository history
- **Multiple Formats**: JSON, database connections, configuration files

### 🖥️ **Modern Interface**
- **Main Area Display**: Wide layout perfect for scan results
- **Activity Bar Integration**: Easy access via shield icon
- **Smart Directory Selection**: Auto-detects git repositories
- **Progress Tracking**: Real-time scanning and remediation progress

### 🤖 **Automated Workflow**
- **One-Click Dependency Install**: Docker, Nosey Parker, BFG tool
- **Intelligent Scanning**: Context-aware repository analysis
- **Guided Remediation**: Step-by-step secret removal process
- **Git History Cleanup**: Automatic history rewriting and cleanup

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Installation
```bash
# Install from VS Code Marketplace (coming soon)
code --install-extension leak-lock

# Or install from VSIX
code --install-extension leak-lock-0.0.1.vsix
```

### 2. Open Leak Lock
- **Activity Bar**: Click the 🛡️ shield icon
- **Command Palette**: `Ctrl+Shift+P` → "Open Leak Lock Scanner"
- **Status Bar**: Click the shield icon

### 3. Install Dependencies
- Click "🔧 Install Dependencies" on first use
- Installs Docker images, BFG tool, and requirements
- One-time setup with progress tracking

### 4. Scan Repository
- **Auto-Detection**: Git repositories selected automatically
- **Manual Selection**: Choose any directory to scan
- **Review Results**: Examine detected secrets in detailed table

### 5. Remove Secrets
- **Select Secrets**: Choose which ones to remove
- **Generate Commands**: Automatic BFG command generation
- **Execute Cleanup**: One-click git history rewriting

---

## 📸 Screenshots

### Activity Bar Integration
The extension adds a shield icon to the activity bar for easy access.

### Welcome View
Simple welcome interface in the sidebar with a "Open Scanner" button.

### Main Scanner Interface
Full-width main area interface showing:
- Dependency installation status
- Directory selection with auto-detection
- Scanning controls and progress
- Results display in wide table format

### Scanning Process
Real-time progress indication during repository scanning with Nosey Parker.

### Results Display
Detailed table showing:
- Secret type and severity
- File location and line number
- Preview of detected content
- Action buttons for remediation

### Remediation Interface
Step-by-step process for removing secrets:
- Secret selection checkboxes
- Replacement value input
- BFG command generation
- Git cleanup execution

---

## 📖 Documentation

### 📋 **File Structure**
```
leak-lock/
├── extension.js              # Main extension entry point
├── leakLockPanel.js          # Main area panel provider
├── welcomeViewProvider.js    # Activity bar welcome view
├── project-scan.js           # Legacy compatibility
├── package.json              # Extension manifest
├── media/
│   └── shield.svg            # Extension icon
└── docs/                     # Documentation files
```

### 🔧 **Architecture Components**

#### **Extension.js**
- Main extension activation and command registration
- Dependency management and cleanup
- Status bar integration

#### **LeakLockPanel.js**
- Main area webview panel provider
- Scanning workflow implementation
- Results display and remediation UI

#### **WelcomeViewProvider.js**
- Activity bar sidebar integration
- Welcome interface and launch button

---

## 🛠️ Development

### **Prerequisites**
- Node.js 16+ 
- VS Code 1.96.0+
- Docker (for testing scanning functionality)

### **Setup**
```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/nikolareljin/leak-lock.git
cd leak-lock

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Launch in development mode
code . # Press F5 to launch extension host
```

### **Testing**
```bash
# Run tests
npm test

# Manual testing
# 1. Press F5 to launch extension host
# 2. Click shield icon in activity bar
# 3. Test dependency installation
# 4. Test scanning workflow
```

---

## 🛡️ Security Tools

### **Nosey Parker**
- **Purpose**: Secret detection and scanning
- **Image**: `ghcr.io/praetorian-inc/noseyparker:latest`
- **Capabilities**: 100+ secret patterns, low false positives
- **Integration**: Docker containerized execution

### **BFG Repo Cleaner**
- **Purpose**: Git history rewriting and cleanup
- **Tool**: Java-based command line utility
- **Capabilities**: Remove secrets from entire git history
- **Integration**: Automated command generation and execution

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

### **Commands Available**
- `leak-lock.openPanel` - Open main scanner interface
- `leak-lock.scanRepository` - Start repository scanning
- `leak-lock.fixSecrets` - Open remediation interface
- `leak-lock.cleanup` - Clean up all dependencies

### **Dependencies**
- **Docker**: Container runtime for Nosey Parker
- **Java**: Runtime for BFG tool (auto-detected)
- **Git**: Version control operations

---

## 🧹 Cleanup

The extension provides comprehensive cleanup functionality:

### **Automatic Cleanup (on uninstall)**
- Removes Nosey Parker Docker image
- Deletes BFG tool jar file
- Cleans up temporary files and directories
- Removes Docker volumes created by extension

### **Manual Cleanup**
Use command palette: `Leak Lock: Clean Up Dependencies`

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Areas for improvement:
- 🔍 Additional secret detection patterns
- 🎨 UI/UX enhancements
- 📖 Documentation improvements
- 🧪 Test coverage expansion

---

## 📋 Release Notes

### **v0.0.1 (Current)**
- ✨ Initial release with core functionality
- 🛡️ Main area interface for wide result display
- 🔧 Automated dependency installation
- 🎯 Smart directory selection for git repositories
- 🧹 Complete cleanup on uninstall

---

## 📄 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 🆘 Support

- 📖 [Documentation](./docs/) - Comprehensive guides
- 💬 [Issues](https://github.com/nikolareljin/leak-lock/issues) - Bug reports
- 📧 Contact: Create an issue for support

---

**Made with ❤️ for secure development**

Commit message:

feat: add extensions for VisualStudio and IntelliJ platforms

README.md, after:

# 🛡️ Leak Lock - VS Code Security Extension

**Secure your code repositories by detecting and removing sensitive information from git history**

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.0.1-blue.svg)](package.json)
[![VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS%20Code-1.96.0+-brightgreen.svg)](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

[📖 Documentation](#documentation) • [🚀 Quick Start](#quick-start) • [📸 Screenshots](#screenshots) • [🛠️ Development](#development) • [🧩 Visual Studio](#visual-studio) • [🧩 IntelliJ](#intellij)

---

## 🌟 Overview

Leak Lock is a powerful VS Code extension that helps developers secure their repositories by:

- 🔍 **Scanning** git repositories for secrets, API keys, and sensitive data
- 🛡️ **Detecting** over 100+ types of credentials using Nosey Parker
- 🔧 **Removing** secrets from git history using BFG tool
- ⚡ **Automating** the complete security remediation workflow
- 📊 **Displaying** results in an intuitive main area interface

## ✨ Key Features

### 🎯 **Smart Detection**
- **100+ Secret Types**: API keys, passwords, tokens, certificates
- **Low False Positives**: Advanced pattern matching and validation
- **Git History Scanning**: Deep analysis of entire repository history
- **Multiple Formats**: JSON, database connections, configuration files

### 🖥️ **Modern Interface**
- **Main Area Display**: Wide layout perfect for scan results
- **Activity Bar Integration**: Easy access via shield icon
- **Smart Directory Selection**: Auto-detects git repositories
- **Progress Tracking**: Real-time scanning and remediation progress

### 🤖 **Automated Workflow**
- **One-Click Dependency Install**: Docker, Nosey Parker, BFG tool
- **Intelligent Scanning**: Context-aware repository analysis
- **Guided Remediation**: Step-by-step secret removal process
- **Git History Cleanup**: Automatic history rewriting and cleanup

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Installation
```bash
# Install from VS Code Marketplace (coming soon)
code --install-extension leak-lock

# Or install from VSIX
code --install-extension leak-lock-0.0.1.vsix
```

### 2. Open Leak Lock
- **Activity Bar**: Click the 🛡️ shield icon
- **Command Palette**: `Ctrl+Shift+P` → "Open Leak Lock Scanner"
- **Status Bar**: Click the shield icon

### 3. Install Dependencies
- Click "🔧 Install Dependencies" on first use
- Installs Docker images, BFG tool, and requirements
- One-time setup with progress tracking

### 4. Scan Repository
- **Auto-Detection**: Git repositories selected automatically
- **Manual Selection**: Choose any directory to scan
- **Review Results**: Examine detected secrets in detailed table

### 5. Remove Secrets
- **Select Secrets**: Choose which ones to remove
- **Generate Commands**: Automatic BFG command generation
- **Execute Cleanup**: One-click git history rewriting

---

## 📸 Screenshots

### Activity Bar Integration
The extension adds a shield icon to the activity bar for easy access.

### Welcome View
Simple welcome interface in the sidebar with a "Open Scanner" button.

### Main Scanner Interface
Full-width main area interface showing:
- Dependency installation status
- Directory selection with auto-detection
- Scanning controls and progress
- Results display in wide table format

### Scanning Process
Real-time progress indication during repository scanning with Nosey Parker.

### Results Display
Detailed table showing:
- Secret type and severity
- File location and line number
- Preview of detected content
- Action buttons for remediation

### Remediation Interface
Step-by-step process for removing secrets:
- Secret selection checkboxes
- Replacement value input
- BFG command generation
- Git cleanup execution

---

## 📖 Documentation

### 📋 **File Structure**
```
leak-lock/
├── extension.js              # Main extension entry point
├── leakLockPanel.js          # Main area panel provider
├── welcomeViewProvider.js    # Activity bar welcome view
├── project-scan.js           # Legacy compatibility
├── package.json              # Extension manifest
├── media/
│   └── shield.svg            # Extension icon
└── docs/                     # Documentation files
```

### 🔧 **Architecture Components**

#### **Extension.js**
- Main extension activation and command registration
- Dependency management and cleanup
- Status bar integration

#### **LeakLockPanel.js**
- Main area webview panel provider
- Scanning workflow implementation
- Results display and remediation UI

#### **WelcomeViewProvider.js**
- Activity bar sidebar integration
- Welcome interface and launch button

---

## 🛠️ Development

### **Prerequisites**
- Node.js 16+ 
- VS Code 1.96.0+
- Docker (for testing scanning functionality)

### **Setup**
```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/nikolareljin/leak-lock.git
cd leak-lock

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Launch in development mode
code . # Press F5 to launch extension host
```

### **Testing**
```bash
# Run tests
npm test

# Manual testing
# 1. Press F5 to launch extension host
# 2. Click shield icon in activity bar
# 3. Test dependency installation
# 4. Test scanning workflow
```

---

## 🧩 Visual Studio

Looking for a native Visual Studio (VSIX) extension with the same functionality?

- See `visualstudio/README.md` for build and usage instructions.
- Project path: `visualstudio/LeakLock.VSExtension`

The VSIX extension scans repositories via Dockerized Nosey Parker and performs BFG-based git history cleanup, similar to the VS Code extension UI/flow.

## 🧩 IntelliJ

Looking for a native IntelliJ Platform plugin with the same functionality?

- See `intellij/README.md` for build and usage instructions.
- Project path: `intellij/LeakLockIntelliJ`

The IntelliJ plugin offers a tool window that scans via Dockerized Nosey Parker and performs BFG-based git history cleanup, mirroring the core flow of the VS Code/Visual Studio extensions.

## 🛡️ Security Tools

### **Nosey Parker**
- **Purpose**: Secret detection and scanning
- **Image**: `ghcr.io/praetorian-inc/noseyparker:latest`
- **Capabilities**: 100+ secret patterns, low false positives
- **Integration**: Docker containerized execution

### **BFG Repo Cleaner**
- **Purpose**: Git history rewriting and cleanup
- **Tool**: Java-based command line utility
- **Capabilities**: Remove secrets from entire git history
- **Integration**: Automated command generation and execution

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

### **Commands Available**
- `leak-lock.openPanel` - Open main scanner interface
- `leak-lock.scanRepository` - Start repository scanning
- `leak-lock.fixSecrets` - Open remediation interface
- `leak-lock.cleanup` - Clean up all dependencies

### **Dependencies**
- **Docker**: Container runtime for Nosey Parker
- **Java**: Runtime for BFG tool (auto-detected)
- **Git**: Version control operations

---

## 🧹 Cleanup

The extension provides comprehensive cleanup functionality:

### **Automatic Cleanup (on uninstall)**
- Removes Nosey Parker Docker image
- Deletes BFG tool jar file
- Cleans up temporary files and directories
- Removes Docker volumes created by extension

### **Manual Cleanup**
Use command palette: `Leak Lock: Clean Up Dependencies`

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Areas for improvement:
- 🔍 Additional secret detection patterns
- 🎨 UI/UX enhancements
- 📖 Documentation improvements
- 🧪 Test coverage expansion

---

## 📋 Release Notes

### **v0.0.1 (Current)**
- ✨ Initial release with core functionality
- 🛡️ Main area interface for wide result display
- 🔧 Automated dependency installation
- 🎯 Smart directory selection for git repositories
- 🧹 Complete cleanup on uninstall

---

## 📄 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 🆘 Support

- 📖 [Documentation](./docs/) - Comprehensive guides
- 💬 [Issues](https://github.com/nikolareljin/leak-lock/issues) - Bug reports
- 📧 Contact: Create an issue for support

---

**Made with ❤️ for secure development**
